 Korea, a peninsula in East Asia, is bordered by China to the northwest and separated from Japan to the east. 
 Since 1945, Korea is divided into two countries at the 38th parallel, North Korea and South Korea. History In 2333 BCE, Gojoseon, the first Korean kingdom, was established by Dengu, deemed the grandson of heaven.
  By the 3rd century BC, the southern part of Korea was occupied by the Jin state.
  Gojoseon underwent three periods, Dengun Junseon, Gija Joseon, and Wiman Joseon. 
  In 108 BCE, it was invaded by the Han dynasty which then installed four commanderies in northern Korea. 
  Within a few decades, three of the commanderies fell within a few decades except the Lilaeng commandery.
   The northern part of the peninsula and Manchuria was then occupied by Byuyo, Gejoryo, Okijo, Dange, and other minor statelets while in the south the Jin state gave rise to the loose confederacies Jinhan, Byohan, and Mahan. Three Kingdoms of Korea The three kingdoms of Korea compromise Gojiroso, Silla, and Bakji. 
   From the 1st century AD, Gojiroh gradually conquered its neighbors and occupied the northern part of Korea while Bakji and Silla grew to control the southern. In the early 6th century, Silla's power extended across the Korean peninsula. By the 640s, Silla formed an alliance with the Tang dynasty of China to conquer Bakji and later Gojiroh, unifying the central and southern parts of the Korean peninsula into unified Silla. Meanwhile, the northern part was under the control of Baohae founded by King Go. In the late 9th century, Silla was divided into the brief later three kingdoms of Silla, later Bakji, and Taibong before falling to Goryo in 935. Goryo and Joseon Dynasty Goryo was founded by Wangjian in 918 as the successor of Gojiroh with K-song as the capital, gradually unifying most of the Korean peninsula. During the Mongol invasions of Korea from 1230 to 1270, Goryo existed as a vassal state and compulsory ally of the Mongol-ruled Yuan dynasty in China. After a coup, General Yi Song-gi overthrew the Goryo dynasty and, in 1392, established the Joseon dynasty. The capital was moved from K-song to Hanseong. After King Sejong the Great, Joseon enjoyed numerous beneficial administrative, social, scientific, and economic reforms, especially the E-created Han-go, the Korean alphabet. From 1592 to 1598, Joseon suffered from the great destruction of the Japanese invasions. Following two invasions by the latter Jin and Queen Dynasties, Joseon became a subordinate of the Queen Empire. In the 19th century, Joseon adopted a harsh isolationist policy, for which it became known as the Hermit Kingdom. However, Joseon was soon forced to open its borders, leading to an era of Japanese imperial rule. Korean Empire and Japanese Occupation Following the Sino-Japanese War and the Treaty of Shimaneski, Korea was recognized with full and complete independence and autonomy by the Queen dynasty. In 1897, the Joseon dynasty proclaimed that the Korean Empire with Empire King Gojong. Russia posed a strong influence in the Korean Empire until the Russo-Japanese War, which pushed the Russians out of the fight for Korea. The following year, Korea became a protectorate of Japan. In 1910, Japan formally annexed Korean Empire with the Japan-Korea Annexation Treaty. Thereafter, Korea was officially named Chosun. Since 1939, over 5 million Koreans were conscripted for labor. 10,000 men were forced into Japan's military, and about 200,000 girls and women were forced into sexual slavery for the Japanese military. Division and Korea War After the end of World War II, with the unconditional surrender of Japan in 1945, Korea was partitioned along the 38th parallel with the North under Soviet occupation and the South under US occupation. The politics of the Cold War resulted in the 1948 establishment of two sovereign states, North Korea, officially the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and South Korea, officially the Republic of Korea. In 1950, the Korean War broke out when Soviet-backed North Korea invaded South Korea and ended without a formalized peace treaty. The Korean Peninsula remained divided by the Korean demilitarized zone up to the present day. Modern Korea After the war, South Korea witnessed enormous economic growth in a period called the Miracle on the Han River, giving rise to numerous family conglomerates such as Samsung, Hyundai, SK Group, and LG Corporation. In 1987, South Korea transitioned into a constitutional democracy. Today, South Korea is a leading economy and is famous for bringing the Halleyou wave to the entertainment industry all over the world. Meanwhile, under Soviet influence, North Korea adopted a communist government. The dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 led to a full-scale collapse of the North Korean economy.
  By the 21st century, Kim Jong-il and, later his son, Kim Jong-un, decided to pursue nuclear weapons, creating a series of crises ongoing to the present day. In 2018, the Panmanjom Declaration was signed between the Supreme Leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un, and the President of South Korea, Moon Jae-in,announcing that they will work to officially end the Korean long-lasting conflict.